[website] Developer Advocate / DevEx Engineer role (#39141)
mui/material-ui: docs/pages/careers/developer-advocate.md

> # Developer Advocate / DevEx Engineer

Author: Instead?

Maybe 
```suggestion
# Developer Realtions Engineer
```

Reviewer: Vercel uses the titles `Content Developer` and `Content Engineer` for roles that closely match what we're looking for here: someone with an engineering background who can build interesting demos and example projects to create learning content around.

Reviewer: IMO, `Developer Relations Engineer` is probably the ideal title for this role, because I think it gets at the idea that this person needs to be a generalist in this area (they may be asked to perform all kinds of tasks associated with DevRel/DevEx - very wide scope)

<p class="description">You will delight our users and make them excited about the product roadmap.</p>

## Details of the Role

> - **Location**: Remote (strong requirement for UTC-6 to UTC+2).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Location**: Remote (strong preference for UTC-6 to UTC+2).
```

If it's a "strong requirement", I reckon we could just say something like "_only for..._". Otherwise, I think "_preference_" makes more sense! 😬

In our [last developer survey](https://mui.com/blog/2021-developer-survey-results/#what-else-can-we-do-to-improve-mui-for-you), we learned that we have a long way to go in helping developers to be successful with our technology.
We have underinvested in this area for too long.

> Your missing will be to lead the developer experience effort at MUI.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Your mission will be to lead the developer experience effort at MUI.
```

Typo!

We are looking for someone who can contribute to the following outcomes:

> - Create excitement in the React community about the product roadmap.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Get the React community excited about our product's roadmap
```

Slight rephrasing ⎯ sounds more natural?

- Improve the overall developer experience, resulting in better NPS & CSAT scores, through learning content, documentation improvements, integration with other frameworks, etc.

> - Amplify the needs of the community so the product direction aims at what people need the most.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Focus on the community's needs ensuring the product direction is covering them.
```

Slight rephrasing x2 ⎯ previous one sounded weird to me.

Both our open-source community and our premium products are growing fast (x2 YoY).
We need talented people to keep that going!

## About the role

> We are looking for an experienced React developer to join us as a Developer Advocate to help the developers build slick UI at a speed they never experienced before, with the MUI's open-source projects.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We are looking for an experienced React engineer to join us as a Developer Advocate to help developers build slick UI at a speed they have never experienced with MUI's open-source projects.
```

Using the word "engineer" instead of "developer" to tie back to the "DevEx engineer" title.

Depending on the day, you'll:

- **Product**.
  - Fix simple small annoyances in the product.
  - Follow GitHub issues to understand where developers face frustration and develop strategies to overcome these. This could be suggesting or implementing documentation updates, or proposing or contributing code changes that solve the core issue.
  - Give feedback to product management, to influence the product roadmaps based on developers' needs.
- **Docs**.

>   - Rework the pages of the documentation that are confusing, base on feedback.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - Rewrite confusing documentation pages, ensuring the writing is clear and the structure is intuitive to follow.
```

The previous sentence sounded weird.

- **Content**.
  - Create inspiring sample applications, documentation, and tutorials.
  - Write code where required to support how-to content, blog posts, and presentations.
  - Produce high-quality technical "how-to" content (blogs, webinars, demos, talks) addressing common user needs, latest technology advances, and emerging best practices. Videos might go to [our YouTube channel](https://www.youtube.com/@MUI_hq).
  - Distribute content and leverage pieces to broaden awareness of the MUI brand, via existing connections.
- **Community**.
  - Built our developer-focused community.
  - Deliver presentations at meetups, conferences, and other ecosystem events.
  - Create & produce events (podcasts, roundtables, hackathons).
  - Manage the sponsorships of events, newsletters, etc.
  - Help other team members grow at engaging with the community. For instance by encouraging and providing critical feedback on the blog posts they create, or by keeping track of the health of community contributions.

>   - Create relationships with fellow ecosystem influencers and open-source leaders. Nurture ongoing connections with user group members to build personal relationships and deeply understand their needs, usage, journeys, and barriers to adoption.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - Nurture relationships with influencers and members from the React and open-source communities, fostering a connection that allows for a clear understanding of their needs, journeys, and issues.
```

A rephrasing suggestion.

For the right candidate:

> - Lead the Developer Experience team.

Reviewer 2: We could potentially discuss this better on Notion, but just flagging that we should be clearer as far as what "Lead" means here ⎯ no need to answer me, but we should make sure candidates know whether this means managing people.

Author: I have added it under "For the right candidate" to broaden the scope of people who can apply. What you said sounds good

- Revamp the blog post infrastructure to empower the rest of the team to create more content.
- Start a monthly newsletter to engage with the community.
- Organize a MUIConf (once we go >50 people)
- Think about creative ways to promote Base UI, Joy UI, Material UI, MUI X, and new open-source projects.

## About you

### Skills you should have

- You are fluent in English (both written and spoken). You'll be a face of MUI in the world, and make everyone in the company proud of the Developer Experience team.
- You are a highly empathic person.
- You are passionate about helping other developers solve problems and have an educational mindset.
- You have some formal or informal experience in teaching: training, tutoring, mentoring, etc.
- Hands-on developer who is a skilled React engineer.
- You are passionate about UI development.

> - You have a taste for great design UI/UX.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- You have a taste for great product design.
```

I'd drop UI/UX here.
